# FitBit-Fitness-Tracker-Data-Project - Aka Google Capstone Project: How Can Bellabeat, A Wellness Technology Company Play It Smart?
	This analysis is an optional project from the Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate on Coursera.


## BACKGROUND:
	
Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of beautifully-designed health-focused smart products for women. Inspiring and empowering women with knowledge about their own health and habits, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for females.

Urška Sršen, the co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, is confident that an analysis of non-Bellebeat consumer data would reveal more opportunities for growth.



## BUSINESS TASK:
Analyze FitBit Fitness Tracker Data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app and discover trends and insights for Bellabeat marketing strategy.

### Business Objectives:
	What are the trends identified?
	How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
	How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?


### Deliverables:
A clear summary of the business task

A description of all data sources used

Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data

A summary of analysis

Supporting visualizations and key findings

High-level content recommendations based on the analysis




## STAKEHOLDERS:
	Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
	Sando Mur: Mathematician, cofounder and key member of the executive team
	Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts guiding Bellabeat's marketing strategy.





## ABOUT THE DATASET
### Data Source Information
The data is publicly available on Kaggle: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data and stored in 18 csv files.

Generated by respondents from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016.

30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data.

Data collected includes (1) physical activity recorded in minutes, (2) heart rate, (3) sleep monitoring, (4) daily activity and (5) steps.


### Data Limitations
Data collected from 2016. Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then, hence data may not be timely or relevant.
Sample size of 30 female FitBit users is not representative of the entire female population. As data is collected in a survey, hence unable to ascertain the integrity or accuracy of data.



### Is Data ROCC
A good data source is ROCCC which stands for Reliable, Original, Comprehensive, Current, and Cited.
* Reliable — LOW — Not reliable as it only has 30 respondents
* Original — LOW — Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)
* Comprehensive — MEDIUM — Parameters match most of Bellabeat products’ parameters
* Current — LOW — Data is 5 years old and may not be relevant
* Cited — LOW — Data collected from third party, hence unknown

Overall, the dataset is considered low quality data and it is not recommended to produce business recommendations based on this data.

### Data Selection
dailyActivity_merged.csv file




## PROCESS
Python will be used to conduct all steps for Data Cleaning, Data Transformation, Data Visualization & Data Analysis.
